Project Description

The project carries a 30 marks (upto 40) weightage, and should be submitted about two weeks before the end of the course. The exact dates will be announced later.  Two members can form a team.

The statement of the project may get slightly refined as we go on. But, this project should
force each one in EE764 to go through one complete cycle of development through a software
radio platform (SDR/USRP), and get a real feel of what kind of technologies hold promise.
Further, this allows a natural relation between the theory that we learn and its application
in practice.

We already have set up four dedicated SDR transceivers in the Information Systems and Radios
lab, situated in GG top-floor. You are welcome to visit and inspect.  Two of this transceivers
will be given for the experimental part of this course. These are situated roughly 6-8meters
apart, and will be fixed in the lab environment. Think of one as the transmitter and other
as the receiver. The capabilities of these devices were already mentioned to you in the
extraclass (workshop). If you have any more doubts, visit the lab and enquire.

The project is a `bit' open-ended in the sense that we will allow you to do whatever you
wish on this experimental testbed. The objective is to transport the maximum amount of data
from the transmitter to the receiver at an error probability below 10^{-7}. You can
decide on the kind of data that is communicated, but one also needs to construct a BER
counting mechanism  for the data that you use.   In the beginning it is advisable to use
a simple repeated pattern of `10' as the input bits, which can be
manually/automatically checked without  much effort.

You can choose the digital modulation schemes. For example, one can try B-PSK, Q-PSK, 8-PSK
etc. Higher the constellation, higher will be the data transported, however the BER will
also be high. You have to find a compromise to obtain a reasonable BER.  Notice that you
can choose a smaller constellation, but a wider bandwidth to push more data per second.
However, this means less power in each symbol and BER can go up. You have to again understand
the trade-offs, either analytically or experimentally. I will suggest start with BPSK, see
whether you can establish a 100kpbps link.  Target to reach there by the end of February
second week. Notice that there also are options like CDMA/OFDMA which can harness the wide bandwidth available.

In order to do the development, it is good to first test everything in GNURADIO companion (GRC)
internally, before routing the data through the wireless systems. Please start now by
making a small program using BPSK, set the bandwidth and associated parameters, and
get the detector ready. See if you can form a block which measures the BER for your data.
Most of these blocks are already available  in GRC, except perhaps the last one. Jump in and
start playing around.  Once it works, straightaway contact Manu TS (ISR lab)for a time in the lab where you can test your actual performance.

Sometimes, you may manage to send a lot of data, but the BER is above the admissible limit.
In this case, it is advisable to do error correction coding, which can dramatically change
the BER performance.  Blocks to this effect are already available in GRC, but you have
to reach this stage first.

Once you pass the 1Mbps hurdle,  we will allow using of more resources and SDRs to form
innovative schemes.

The tentative marking scheme is 10 marks for 1 Mbps, and 5 marks for every further Mbps.
Though the project is 30marks, there is 10marks bonus for excellent designs, taking the
overall score to 40/100. Note, I increased the marks after the base limit.  The maximal
throughout (bitrate at the given BER) system will be given 10marks. In the final
demonstration, you will be asked to present your scheme, and demonstrate the speed
as well as BER to an expert group (with external members from the industry).

